---
layout: page
title: meam1010
description: intro to mechanical design
cat_descr: A recap of design-based courses at Penn, featuring a mix of code, CAD, and write-ups for various projects.
img: assets/img/3.jpg
importance: 1
category: coursework
---

This class was my introduction to SolidWorks, a step up from the pen-and-paper designs I'd done since middle school. Most of the assignments in this class were to be laser-cut from MDF or acrylic, or 3D printed. I had to design not only for looks and functionality, but also consider how I would fabricate each part, and possibly change the design based on that. <br><br>
All in all, this was one of the most fun and rewarding classes I have taken at Penn! It was cool seeing my creations come to life, but I also picked up skills that have been valuable to my other experiences. (If you're a current/incoming Quaker, I *highly* recommend this class, even if you're not in MEAM... or Engineering at all!) <br><br>
I will be featuring some of my projects from this class below.


## Table of Contents

- [Puzzle Cube](#puzzlecube)
- [Piston](#piston)
- [Section 3](#section-3)
- [Section 4](#section-4)


### Section 2 {#section-2}

Content for Section 2 goes here.

### Section 3 {#section-3}

Content for Section 3 goes here.

### Section 4 {#section-4}

Content for Section 4 goes here.







### Puzzle Cube {#puzzlecube}
*Click <a href="/assets/projectfiles/puzzleCube.zip" download>here</a> to download project zip file.*

One of my first assignments was creating a 3x3x3 puzzle cube, with Parts for each piece, an Assembly of the complete puzzle, and engineering Drawings of each part.
**Skills learned:**
- Creating Parts using sketches and extrusions
- Creating an assembly with multiple parts, using basic mates
- Exploded views
- Engineering drawing conventions

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/puzzle-cube.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/puzzle-cube-exploded.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Left: Complete puzzle cube. Right: Exploded view.
</div>
<br>
<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/puzzle-cube-pink-drawing.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/puzzle-cube-purple-drawing.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Some drawings done for puzzle pieces.
</div>



### Piston {#piston}
For this project, I was shown a video of a simple CNC-machined piston. I then had to create a working model (Solidworks Assembly) of it.
**Skills learned:**
- Creating Parts using sketches and extrusions
- Creating an assembly with multiple parts, using basic mates
- Exploded views
- Engineering drawing conventions

<script>
// Smooth scrolling function
document.querySelectorAll('a[href^="#"]').forEach(anchor => {
    anchor.addEventListener('click', function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();

        const target = document.querySelector(this.getAttribute('href'));
        target.scrollIntoView({
            behavior: 'smooth'
        });
    });
});
</script>